# clbn
Here are the main analysis scripts for analyzing genes expression in clbn mutant using a microarray assay.

`clbn mutant vs. wildtype microarray analysis.Rmd`

- Input:
    - Gene annotation
        - `dmel-all-r6.25.gtf.gz`
    - Selected genes
        - `mitoch_geneID.txt`
    - Microarray raw data
        - `C1_8-1-08_s1.CEL`
        - `C2_8-1-08_s1.CEL`
        - `C3_8-1-08_s1.CEL`
        - `E1_8-1-08_s1.CEL`
        - `E2_8-1-08_s1.CEL`
        - `E3_8-1-08_s1.CEL`
- output:
    - Table
        - `DEG_signal.csv`
        - `gsea_C5_output.txt`
        - `gsym.GO.term.down.csv`
        - `gsym.GO.term.up.csv`
        - `limma_output.csv`
        - `signal_gsym.csv`
        - `signal_probeset.csv`
    - Figure
        - `GSEA_bubbles.pdf`
        - `heatmap_mitoch_scale.pdf`
        - `valcono.pdf`

If the code is helpful to you, please kindly cite our paper as:  

    @article{10.1371/journal.pgen.1009140,
    author = {Dai, Zhaoxia AND Li, Dong AND Du, Xiao AND Ge, Ying AND Hursh, Deborah A. AND Bi, Xiaolin},
    journal = {PLOS Genetics},
    publisher = {Public Library of Science},
    title = {Drosophila Caliban preserves intestinal homeostasis and lifespan through regulating mitochondrial dynamics and redox state in enterocytes},
    year = {2020},
    month = {10},
    volume = {16},
    url = {https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1009140},
    pages = {1-26},
    abstract = {Author summary Self-renewal and differentiation of somatic stem cells are critical for tissue homeostasis. In Drosophila, intestinal homeostasis is maintained by tightly controlled proliferation and differentiation of intestinal stem cells (ISCs). In this study, we demonstrate that maintenance of mitochondrial dynamics and redox balance in enterocytes (ECs) by Caliban (Clbn) is critical for ISCs proliferation and intestinal homeostasis. We show that clbn mutant flies have shortened lifespan, involving disruption of intestinal homeostasis. We find that Clbn is highly expressed and localized to the outer membrane of the mitochondria in enterocytes. Clbn is important for mitochondrial dynamics, as loss of clbn in enterocytes results in mitochondrial fragmentation. Mitochondrial defects cause accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and cellular damage, which in turn leads to activation of oxidative stress and promotion of ISCs over-proliferation. We further show that depletion of clbn promotes tumor growth in gut generated by activated Ras in intestinal progenitor cells. Our results establish Clbn as a modulator of mitochondrial dynamics in enterocytes, and highlight the importance of mitochondrial dynamics in the regulation of somatic stem cells activity and tissue homeostasis.},
    number = {10},
    doi = {10.1371/journal.pgen.1009140}
    }
